# Manage Subscriptions and Governance

Some common definitions are listed below

**Definitions:**

- **Account** - A person or an application/service
  - Person - user; user name, password, MFA
  - App - Managed Identity; represents a program or service

- **Tenant** - A representation of the organisation
  - usually represents a domain name
  - A dedicated instance of Entra ID
  - Ever Azure Account has at least one tenant

- **Subscription** - An agreement with Microsoft Azure services and how you pay for the service
  - All Azure resources get billed to the payment method of the subscription
    - Free Subscriptions
    - Pay as you go
    - Enterprise Agreements

- **Tenant** - An Azure tenant is a dedicated and isolated instance of Azure Entra ID that an organisation receives when it signs up for a Microsoft cloud service, used to manage identities and access to resources.
  - Not every tenant has a subscription by default
  - Tenants can have multiple subscriptions
  - More than once account can be the owner of a tenant
  - You can invite users to your account and grant them access to the tenant

- **Resources** - Are any entities managed by Azure
  - Some resources can create unexpected sub resources
  - Accounts can be given read, update and owner rights to resources

- **Resource Groups** - A way of organising resources in a subscription
  - A logical structure
  - All resources must belong to a single resource group
  - Resource Groups can be deleted, which will delete all the resources in it
  - It is the method Azure uses to separate out projects
  - Permissions can be set at this level

## The subscription Dashboard

To navigate to the subscription:

- On the flyout menu, under **All Services** or search in the search bar
- Allows you change the name of a subscription
- A subscription can be moved to another tenant
- You can set permissions scoped to this level

## Subscription and Management Groups  

The hierarchy, **Management Group -> Multiple Subscriptions**. In the subscription dashboard, you can `+ Add` a subscription to create a subscription based on *offers*, which will be shown on the next screen.

- You normally create multiple subscriptions based on the billing method
- You can also set up subscriptions based on departments, projects, teams etc

A management group can contain other management groups or subscriptions.  

- There is **always** a root management group.  
- You can move management groups and subscriptions as you wish.  
- Permissions and policies filter down from a management group.  

## Cost Management - Analysis, Alerts, Budget Advisor

**Cost Analysis** - Details about your spending in the Azure Portal, you can split it by service name, location, subscription, resource groups etc. You will also see a forecast for the month, current cost and your budget.  
**Cost Alerts** - You can set up certain thresholds for spending. You can set up *budgets* and *cost anomalies* to notify you by email.  
**Advisor** - Looks at Cost recommendations for spending.  

## Resource Locks

When you create resource groups, you have the option to **lock** the resource group. To do this, you need to go to `Settings -> Locks`  

There are two types of locks:

- **Delete** - Prevents deletion of resources in the resource group. This lock type still allows you to make changes to resources
- **Read Only** - Doesn't allow to make any changes (including deletes) to the resources in the resource group

## Azure Policy

Policy is a powerful governance feature. It allows you create rules that specify what is and isn't allowed in the Azure Environment. A good example rule would be "VMs must have backups enabled" or "SQL server must be at minimum version x.xx".

In the overview screen, you can see your compliance score for resources.

Under **definition**, you can see all the policies that have been created. You can filter by category to select the policies that you want to set based on a resource type.

- Policies definitions are in json format and can be edited
- Policies can be scoped to a subscription and a resource group
- Policies can be set to be `enforced` or just for `auditing` purposes
- You can access the policies, on the resource page or through the Azure Policy service page

### Testing Azure Policy

If you set up a policy to restrict resource creations, then warning will display on the creation screen to suggest that you may bump into the policy enforcement on the proceeding steps during the creation. Your custom message will apply at the sight of the selection that is in the policy. You can see what is `Blocked by Policy` in some selection screens, such as if a policy is enforcing VM sizes.  

### Creating Custom Policies

To create policies, the best approach is to copy an existing builtin policy and modify it as required. However, if you prefer to start from scratch, there is a minimum set of information that you need to fill out in a template.

```json
{
    "properties": {
        "displayName": "<Display Name>",
        "description": "<Description>",
        "mode": "<mode type>",
         "parameters": {
            "<Add all your parameters>":{
        },
        "policyRule": {
            "if": {
                "<some rule>": [
                    {
                        "field": "<field",
                        "equals": "<value>"
                    },
                ]
            },
            "then": {
                "effect": "<effect type>"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## Apply and Manage Resource Tags on Resources

Tags play an important role in managing resources. They allow you to perform certain actions based on tags, allow you to see who is responsible for the resource, give descriptions on what the resource does and what it is used for.

- Under every resource, there is a `Tags` section where you can see what has been assigned to the resource.  
- Tags are metadata for the resource.  
- You can set a policy that requires resources contain tags.  
- Tags can be used to filter resources when looking at **cost analysis**
  
## Managing Policies in Powershell  

It is more common to be creating and applying policies.  

Some references:

- [Tutorial](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/tutorials/create-and-manage)
- [Quickstart Powershell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/assign-policy-powershell)
- [Quickstart CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/governance/policy/assign-policy-azurecli)

Some useful Powershell commands:  

```powershell
$rg = Get-AzResourceGroup -Name 'whatever' -Location 'Australia East' # stores the resource group values in the $rg object **$rg.ResourceGroupName** will return the name of the resource group.  
$definition = Get-AzPolicyDefinition -id '/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/PolicyDefinitions/32y89h-d32c2-d32'` # will get a definition and store it in the object $definition
New-AzPolicyAssignment -Scope $rg.ResourceId -Definition $definition -Name 'VM Policy' -DisplayName 'VM Policy' -Identity '<managed identity>' # Assign the policy to the resource group
```

## Moving resources  

You don't need to delete and recreate resources, you can simply move them between resource groups. All you do is select the resource and click `--> Move`.  
There are 3 options:

- Move to another resource group
- Move to another subscription
- Move to another region

There will be a check to see if the resource can be moved, if this is passes. You can move the resource but be aware than the `object ID` will change!

## HANDS ON LABS

[Subscriptions](https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/AZ-104-MicrosoftAzureAdministrator/blob/master/Instructions/Labs/LAB_02a_Manage_Subscriptions_and_RBAC_Entra.md)  
[Policies](https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/AZ-104-MicrosoftAzureAdministrator/blob/master/Instructions/Labs/LAB_02b-Manage_Governance_via_Azure_Policy.md)
